# UnderpantsGnomes

This mod gives you some very early game (day one!) mining automation.
Food and other basic resources are used to power the mine. RF power is
not needed. The idea is to fill a chest with stuff gnomes want and
then place a sign above it asking for help. They will dig out a branch
mine while you are busy doing other things.

I've tried to balance the mod for early and mid-game. Gnomes mine a
bit faster than you, but eat more. They need about the same amount of
wood and coal to light up the mine with torches and replace their
pickaxes. At high levels, only food is required for mining. A small
mine can be started with only an apple and a couple logs.

Mining deeper than level 30 requires underpants. Underpants can be
crafted out of string and dye. The more kinds of underpants you offer
them, the faster and more efficiently they work. Iron and better food
are also very helpful at deeper levels.

When gnomes dig out blocks, what happens to the blocks depends on what
quality of tools you are giving them. The default stone pickaxe will
break basic blocks like coal and iron ore, but not quartz for
example. Iron will break most blocks and diamond pickaxes will break
everything. You may not want to give them diamond though if you can't
keep them happy--their happiness works similar to fortune. Blocks that
the gnomes can't break will be hauled into a store room for you to
break. All other drops (including the stone) will be placed into a
chest in the same store room. They will not void or compress any
blocks. It's up to you to manage the output. Mid-game you will
definitely want to automate this!

If you need larger amounts of basic ore than what the gnomes are
mining, you can try calling on dwarves for help instead.  They consume
massive quantities of ale and other alcohols so you'll definitely want
some farming automation. The advantage to dwarves is that they have
better mining fortune and can also find basic ores in common stone.

The mod can be used purely server-side with a vanilla client. You must
change the configuration to re-balance around other resources besides
underpants and alcohol. Food balance should also be changed if you
aren't using Pam's Harvestcraft or other mods with high quality food.

Late game you will definitely want to use something like Immersive
Engineering's Excavator or Environmental Tech's Void Miner. You will
also need one of these other solutions if you want to mine resources
in hell or some exotic non-surface dimension.

# How to start a mine

1. Dig a small room where you want the center of your mine to be. The
height of the room (up to 5 blocks) determines the height of the mine
tunnels. The bottom level of the room must be level 30 or higher for
this starter mine.
2. Place down a small chest next to a wall. Not a double chest. Not an
ender chest. Not a crate. Just a 27 slot basic chest. Gnomes are
simple creatures.
3. Put logs and food into the chest. An apple or piece of bread and
two logs will get you started. You can also add other items to change
how the mine is dug--see the table of options for more.
4. Place a sign on the wall directly above the chest and write: "MINE
HERE PLEASE"
5. Bang the sign for luck. (Right click it with an open hand.) Go away
and leave the gnomes to their work. Food and resources will start to
disappear from the chest as the mine is built. You need to restock
it. The store room across from the chest will start to fill up. I hope
you have a plan for how to empty it because when it's completely full,
the gnomes will stop mining until you empty it.

# Mining options

* torch -- requires coal and wood, but lights up all tunnels with torches
* stone slab -- extends floors over open air such as chasms
* iron pickaxe -- breaks more blocks (less manual work in your store room)
* diamond pickaxe -- breaks all blocks (full automation)

# Yields

The largest mine is 272x272 with 5 high tunnels for a total volume of
272x272x7 or 517,888 blocks. A more efficient configuration though
(with less waste rock) is two mines stacked above each other each with
only 2 high tunnels. Each of the mines contains 295,936
blocks. Combined they have 591,872 and require only 80% of the tunnel
digging.

The size of a mine is controlled by writing the size you want on the
sign. The height of a mine is controlled by how high you dig the
ceiling in the initial room.

** I will provide more info on ore percentage and drops as I test the mod **
